# AQI-Prediction
Used CatBoost, RF and SVR for AQI Prediction and comparison. SMOTE was used to improve accuracy.
Air Quality Index (AQI) is an index of reporting on air quality. It is a measurement for what air contamination means for one's wellbeing over a brief timeframe. The AQI aims to inform people about the effects of local air quality on their health. India's cities are experiencing a dramatic rise in air pollution. To calculate the air quality index in the form of a mathematical formula, various methods have been devised. Many researchers have discovered correlation between population exposure to air pollution and negative health effects. One of the most exciting ways to predict AQI and do its analysis is through data mining techniques. The 3 different methods we have used are Support Vector Regression (SVR), Random Forest Regression (RFR) & CatBoost Regression (CR) to find out the AQI of New Delhi, Bangalore, Kolkata and Hyderabad. After comparing the results, it was noted that Random Forest regression give the least RMSE values in Bangalore (0.5674), Kolkata (0.1403) & Hyderabad (0.3826) and higher accuracy in comparison to SVR and CatBoost Regression for Kolkata (90.9700%) and Hyderabad (78.3672%) whereas for New Delhi CatBoost Regression gives the least RMSE Value (0.2792) and highest accuracy for New Delhi (79.8622%) and Bangalore (68.6860%). For the dataset with synthetic minority oversampling technique (SMOTE) algorithm on it in that it is noted that  Random Forest Regression gives the least RMSE values in Kolkata (0.0988) and Hyderabad (0.0628) and higher accuracies for Kolkata(93.7438%) and Hyderabad(97.6080%) in comparison to SVR and Catboost Regression, whereas CatBoost Regression gives higher accuracies for New Delhi (85.0847%) and Bangalore (90.3071%) and Least RMSE values for New Delhi (0.2148) and Bangalore (0.1895).Thus this clearly showed that datasets with SMOTE algorithm applied on them gave higher accuracies.
